# What are Character and Paragraph Styles?
Character and Paragraph styles are customizeable font templates. They allow you to create presets and load from those presets onto a text layer, as well as override portions of the preset on a per layer basis. For example, say you want to create a preset for Comic Sans(don't), you could have it set to be 24px, optical kerning, 24px leading, and be colored pink. To open the panel go to Window and select either Character Styles or Paragraph Styles. The difference between the two is that character styles can affect less parts, it can't affect justification for example, but it can be used on only a part of a text layer, while paragraph styles can affect more parts, but affect the entire text layer. I find that I typically dont need the features of paragraph styles and the flexibility of character styles make character stlyes my preffered choice.

I'll typically make a swatch file to store my character styles, as each file has it's own character style rather than there being global character/paragraph styles. Then I'll go the panel's menu and click "Save Default Character/Paragraph Styles" to save them(I think this resets every time you reopen Photoshop, at least I tend to have fonts from one project in another if I don't reopen Photoshop in between working on them.) On each file you can go the panel's menu and select "Load Default Character/Paragraph Styles" to import the character styles to each image I'm working on. Note that you need to have a text layer present to save character/paragraph styles.
